   (a)  General rule--Wells may not be drilled within 200 feet, or, in
   the case of an unconventional gas well, 500 feet, measured horizontally
   from the vertical well bore to a building or water well, existing when
   the copy of the plat is mailed as required by section 3211(b) (relating
   to well permits) without written consent of the owner of the building
   or water well. Unconventional gas wells may not be drilled within 1,000
   feet measured horizontally from the vertical well bore to any existing
   water well, surface water intake, reservoir or other  water supply
   extraction point used by a water purveyor without the written consent
   of the water purveyor. If consent is not obtained and the distance
   restriction would deprive the owner of the oil and gas rights of the
   right to produce or share in the oil or gas underlying the surface
   tract, the well operator shall be granted a variance from the distance
   restriction upon submission of a plan identifying the additional
   measures, facilities or practices as prescribed by the department to be
   employed during well site construction, drilling and operations. The
   variance shall include additional terms and conditions required by the
   department to ensure safety and protection of affected persons and
   property, including insurance, bonding, indemnification and technical
   requirements. Notwithstanding section 3211(e), if a variance request
   has been submitted, the department may extend its permit review period
   for up to 15 days upon notification to the applicant of the reasons for
   the extension.

   (b)  Limitation--

   (1)  No well site may be prepared or well drilled within 100 feet or,
   in the case of an unconventional well, 300 feet from the vertical well
   bore or 100 feet from the edge of the well site, whichever is greater,
   measured horizontally from any solid blue lined stream, spring or body
   of water as identified on the most current 7 1/2 minute topographic
   quadrangle map of the United States Geological Survey.

   (2)  The edge of the disturbed area associated with any unconventional
   well site must maintain a 100-foot setback from the edge of any solid
   blue lined stream, spring or body of water as identified on the most
   current 7 1/2 minute topographic quadrangle map of the United States
   Geological Survey.

   (3)  No unconventional well may be drilled within 300 feet of any
   wetlands greater than one acre in size, and the edge of the disturbed
   area of any well site must maintain a 100-foot setback from the
   boundary of the wetlands.

   (4)  The department shall waive the distance restrictions upon
   submission of a plan identifying additional measures, facilities or
   practices to be employed during well site construction, drilling and
   operations necessary to protect the waters of this Commonwealth. The
   waiver, if granted, shall include additional terms and conditions
   required by the department necessary to protect the waters of this
   Commonwealth. Notwithstanding section 3211(e), if a waiver request has
   been submitted, the department may extend its permit review period for
   up to 15 days upon notification to the applicant of the reasons for the
   extension.

   (c)  Impact.--On making a determination on a well permit, the
   department shall consider the impact of the proposed well on public
   resources, including, but not limited to:

   (1)  Publicly owned parks, forests, game lands and wildlife areas

   (2)  National or State scenic rivers

   (3)  National natural landmarks

   (4)  Habitats of rare and endangered flora and fauna and other critical
   communities

   (5)  Historical and archaeological sites listed on the Federal or State
   list of historic places

   (6)  Sources used for public drinking supplies in accordance with
   subsection (b)

   (d)  Consideration of municipality and storage operator comments--The
   department may consider the comments submitted under section 3212.1
   (relating to comments by municipalities and storage operators) in
   making a determination on a well permit. Notwithstanding any other law,
   no municipality or storage operator shall have a right of appeal or
   other form of review from the department's decision.

   (d.1)  Additional protective measures--The department may establish
   additional protective measures for storage of hazardous chemicals and
   materials intended to be used or that have been used on an
   unconventional well drilling site within 750 feet of a solid blue lined
   stream, spring or body of water identified on the most current 7 1/2
   minute topographic quadrangle map of the United States Geological
   Survey.

   (e)  Regulation criteria--The Environmental Quality Board shall
   develop by regulation criteria:

   (1)  For the department to utilize for conditioning a well permit based
   on its impact to the public resources identified under subsection (c)
   and for ensuring optimal development of oil and gas resources and
   respecting property rights of oil and gas owners.

   (2)  For appeal to the Environmental Hearing Board of a permit
   containing conditions imposed by the department. The regulations shall
   also provide that the department has the burden of proving that the
   conditions were necessary to protect against a probable harmful impact
   of the public resources.

   (f)  Floodplains--

   (1)  No well site may be prepared or well drilled within any floodplain
   if the well site will have:

   (i)  a pit or impoundment containing drilling cuttings, flowback water,
   produced water or hazardous materials, chemicals or wastes within the
   floodplain; or

   (ii)  a tank containing hazardous materials, chemicals, condensate,
   wastes, flowback or produced water within the floodway

   (2)  A well site shall not be eligible for a floodplain restriction
   waiver if the well site will have a tank containing condensate,
   flowback or produced water within the flood fringe unless all the tanks
   have adequate floodproofing in accordance with the National Flood
   Insurance Program standards and accepted engineering practices.

   (3)  The department may waive restrictions upon submission of a plan
   that shall identify the additional measures, facilities or practices to
   be employed during well site construction, drilling and operations. The
   waiver, if granted, shall impose permit conditions necessary to protect
   the waters of this Commonwealth.

   (4)  Best practices as determined by the department to ensure the
   protection of the waters of this Commonwealth must be utilized for the
   storage and handling of all water, chemicals, fuels, hazardous
   materials or solid waste on a well site located in a floodplain. The
   department may request that the well site operator submit a plan for
   the storage and handling of the materials for approval by the
   department and may impose conditions or amend permits to include permit
   conditions as are necessary to protect the environment, public health
   and safety.

   (5)  Unless otherwise specified by the department, the boundary of the
   floodplain shall be as indicated on maps and flood insurance studies
   provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. In an area where
   no Federal Emergency Management Agency maps or studies have defined the
   boundary of the 100-year frequency floodplain, absent evidence to the
   contrary, the floodplain shall extend from:

   (i)  any perennial stream up to 100 feet horizontally from the top of
   the bank of the perennial stream; or

   (ii)  from any intermittent stream up to 50 feet horizontally from the
   top of the bank of the intermittent stream.

   (g)  Applicability--

   (1)  This section shall not apply to a well proposed to be drilled on
   an existing well site for which at least one well permit has been
   issued prior to the effective date of this section.

   (2)  Nothing in this section shall alter or abridge the terms of any
   contract, mortgage or other agreement entered into prior to the
   effective date of this section.
